Dear Professor Lukin,

I am writing to apply for the postdoc position in your laboratory, particularly to investigate the classical benchmark of maximum independent set algorithms.

Maximum independent set (MIS) is a famous NP-complete problem in graph theory. A solid benchmark of state-of-the-art algorithms for such a problem has a great importance to the complexity theory. Meanwhile, it is also an interesting model for statistical physics. I am excited about the proposal in your group that combining Rydberg system and this graph theory problem. This proposal combines the algorithm and physics system in an elegant way, which will be an excellent testbed to investigate quantum advantage on real-world problems. Careful benchmarking of the best classical algorithms is an essential step to conclusively demonstrate quantum advantage, if there is any. I really wish to join you to push the limit of classical simulation, as well as probing quantum approaches for solving the optimization problem.


I believe that I am the right person to attack such a problem that requires knowledge from both fields of computer science and statistical physics. I got my bachelor’s degree on software engineering, and PhD degree on condensed matter physics. I am experienced with algorithms such as branching, junction tree, and message passing that can be used to solve MIS problems efficiently. Meanwhile, I am an active developer in open source community, in the past. I and my collaborators developed several popular open source packages including a package for quantum simulation Yao.jl, automatic differentiable tensor networks package OMEinsum.jl. I won the first prize of ZTE fantastic algorithms challenge in 2017. I am very enthusiastic about proposing new algorithms and implementing them with high performance.

Please consider that my investigative qualities of independence, creativity, and critical thinking. I believe my technical skills in high performance computation, tensor network and differential programming, and my experience in software engineering would be a valuable asset to your group. I have attached my CV and would be delighted to talk to you about your work and how we could work together to advance it. I can be reached anytime via email at cacate0129@gmail.com.

Best Regards,

Jinguo Liu
